The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Waker Dreams, by Richard Matheson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Waker Dreams

Author: Richard Matheson

Release Date: January 29, 2016 [EBook #51076]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WAKER DREAMS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           THE WAKER DREAMS

                          BY RICHARD MATHESON

                      Illustrated by Paul Piérre

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Galaxy Science Fiction December 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




       There's nothing like exciting fantasy to escape boredom.
        The problem is to know whether it's actually a fantasy.


If one flew over the city at this time of this day, which was like any
other day in the year 3850, one would think all life had disappeared.

Sweeping over the rustless spires, one would search in vain for the
sight of human activity. One's gaze would scan the great ribboned
highways that swept over and under each other like the weave of some
tremendous loom. But there would be no autocars to see; nothing but the
empty lanes and the colored traffic lights clicking out their mindless
progressions.

Dipping low and weaving in and out among the glittering towers, one
might see the moving walks, the studied revolution of the giant street
ventilators, hot in the winter and cool in summer, the tiny doors
opening and closing, the park fountains shooting their methodical
columns of water into the air.

Farther along, one would flit across the great open field on which the
glossy spaceships stood lined before their hangars. Farther yet, one
would catch sight of the river, the metal ships resting along shore,
delicate froth streaming from their sterns caused by the never-ending
operation of their vents.

Again, one would glide over the city proper, seeking some sign of life
in the broad avenues, the network of streets, the painstaking pattern
of dwellings in the living area, the metal fastness of the commercial
section.

The search would be fruitless.

All movement below would be seen to be mechanical. And, knowing what
city this was, one's eyes would stop the search for citizens and seek
out those squat metal structures which stood a half mile apart. These
circular buildings housed the never-resting machines, the humming
geared servants of the city's people.

These were the machines that did all; cleared the air of impurities,
moved the walks and opened the doors, sent their synchronized impulses
into the traffic lights, operated the fountains and the spaceships, the
river vessels and the ventilators.

These were the machines in whose flawless efficacy the people of the
city placed their casual faith.

At the moment, these people were resting on their pneumatic couches in
rooms. And the music that seeped from their wall speakers, the cool
breezes that flowed from their wall ventilators, the very air they
breathed--all these were of and from the machines, the unfailing, the
trusted, the infallible machines.

Now there was a buzzing in ears. Now the city came alive.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a buzzing, buzzing. From the black swirl of slumber, you
heard it. You wrinkled up your classic nose and twitched the twenty
neural rods that led to the highways of your extremities.

The sound bore deeper, cut through swaths of snooze and poked an
impatient finger in the throbbing matter of your brain. You twisted
your head on the pillow and grimaced.

There was no cessation. With stupored hand, you reached out and picked
up the receiver. One eye propped open by dint of will, you breathed a
weary mutter into the mouthpiece.

"Captain Rackley!" The knifing voice put your teeth on edge.

"Yes," you said.

"You will report to your company headquarters immediately!"

That swept away sleep and annoyance as a petulant old man brushes
chessmen from his board. Stomach muscles drew into play and you were
sitting. Inside your noble chest, that throbbing meat ball, source of
blood velocity, saw fit to swell and depress with marked emphasis. Your
sweat glands engaged in proper activity, ready for action, danger,
heroism.

"Is it...?" you started.

"Report immediately!" the voice crackled, and there was a severe click
in your ear.

You, Justin Rackley, dropped the receiver--plunko--in its cradle and
leaped from bed in a shower of fluttering bedclothes.

You raced to your wardrobe door and flung it open. Plunging into the
depths, you soon emerged with your skintight pants, the tunic for your
forty-two chest. You donned said trousers and tunic, flopped upon a
nearby seat and plunged your arches into black military boots.

       *       *       *       *       *

And your face reflected oh-so-grim thoughts. Combing out your thick
blond hair, you were sure you knew what the emergency was.

The Rustons! They were at it again!

Awake now, you wrinkled your nose with conscious aplomb. The Rustons
made revolting food for thought with their twelve legs, sign of alien
progenitors, and their exudation of foul reptilian slime.

As you scurried from your room, leaped across the balustrade and down
the stairs, you wondered once again where these awful Rustons had
originated, what odious interbreeding produced their monster race. You
wondered where they lived, where proliferated their grisly stock, held
their meetings of war, began the upward slither to those great Earth
fissures from which they massed in attack.

With nothing approaching answers to these endless questions, you ran
out of the dwelling and flew down the steps to your faithful autocar.
Sliding in, pushing buttons, levers, pedals, what have you, you soon
had it darting through the streets toward the broad highway that led to
headquarters.

At this time of day, naturally, there were very few people about. In
point of fact you saw none. It was only a few minutes later, when you
turned sharply and zoomed up the ramp to the highway, that you saw
the other autocars whizzing toward the tower five miles distant. You
guessed, and were correct in guessing, that they were fellow officers,
all similarly ripped from slumber by mobilization.

Buildings flew past as you pushed pedals deeper into their cavities,
your face always grim, alive to danger, grand warrior! True, you were
not averse to the chance for activity after a month of idleness. But
the circumstances _were_ slightly distasteful. To think of the Rustons
made a fellow shudder, eh?

What made them pour from their unknown pits? Why did they seek to
destroy the machines, let the acid canker of their ooze eat through
metal, make the teeth fall off the gears like petals off a dying
flower? What was their purpose? Did they mean to ruin the city? Govern
its inhabitants? Or slaughter them? Ugly questions, questions without
answers.

Well, you thought as you drove into headquarters parking area, thank
heaven the Rustons had only managed to get at a few of the outer
machines, yours blessedly not included.

They, at least, had no more idea than you where the Great Machine was,
that fabulous fountainhead of energy, driver of all machines.

You slid the seat of your military trousers across the seat of the
autocar and jumped out into the wide lot. Your black boots clacked
as you ran toward the entrance. Other officers were getting out of
autocars, too, running across the area. None of them said anything;
they all looked grim. Some of them nodded curtly at you as you all
stood together in the rising elevator. Bad business, you thought.

With a tug at the groin, the door gave a hydraulic gasp and opened. You
stepped out and padded silently down the hall to the high-ceilinged
briefing room.

Already the room was almost filled. The young men, invariably handsome
and muscular, stood in gregarious formations, discussing the Rustons
in low voices. The gray soundproof walls sucked in their comments and
returned dead air.

       *       *       *       *       *

The men gave you a look and a nod when you entered, then returned to
their talking. Justin Rackley, captain, that's you, sat down in a front
seat.

Then you looked up. The door to Upper Echelons was jerked open. The
General came striding through, a sheaf of papers in his square fist.
_His_ face was grim too.

He stepped up on the rostrum and slapped the papers on the thick table
which stood there. Then he plumped down on the edge of it and kicked
his boot against one of its legs until all your fellow officers had
broken up their groups and hurriedly taken seats. With silence creeping
over all heads, he pursed his lips and banged a palm on the table
surface.

"Gentlemen," he said with that voice which seemed to issue from an
ancient tomb, "once more the city lies in grave danger."

He then paused and looked capable of handling all emergencies. You
hoped that someday you might be General and look capable of handling
all emergencies. No reason why not, you thought.

"I will not take up precious time," the General went on, taking
up precious time. "You all know your positions, you all know your
responsibilities. When this briefing is concluded, you will report
to the arsenal and draw out your ray guns. Always remember that the
Rustons must not be allowed to enter the machinery and live. Shoot
to kill. The rays are _not_ harmful, repeat, _not_ harmful to the
machinery."

He looked over you eager young men.

"You also know," he said, "the dangers of Ruston poisoning. For this
reason, that the slightest touch of their stingers can lead to abysmal
agonies of death, you will be assigned, as you also know, a nurse
trained in the combating of systemic poisons. Therefore, after leaving
the arsenal, you will report to the Preventive Section."

He winked, a thoroughly out-of-place wink.

"And remember," he said, with a broad roll of import in his voice,
"this is _war_! And _only_ war!"

This, of course, brought on appreciative smiles, a smattering of leers
and many unmilitary asides. Upon which the General snapped out of his
brief role as chuckling confrere and returned to strict autocratic
detachment.

"Once assigned a nurse, those of you whose machines are more than
fifteen miles from the city will report to the spaceport, there to be
assigned a spacecar. All of you will then proceed with utmost dispatch.
Questions?"

No questions.

"I need hardly remind you," completed the General, "of the importance
of this defense. As you are well aware, should the Rustons penetrate
our city, spread their ravaging to the core of our machine system,
should they--heaven forfend!--locate the Great Machine, we may then
expect nothing but the most merciless of butchery. The city would be
undone, we would all be annihilated, Man would be overthrown."

       *       *       *       *       *

The men looked at him with clenched fists, patriotism lurching through
their brains like drunken satyrs, yours included, Justin Rackley.

"That is all," said the General, waving his hand. "Good shooting."

He jumped down from the platform and swept through the doorway, the
door opening magically a split second before his imperious nose stood
to shatter on its surface.

You stood up, muscles tingling. Onward! Save our fair city!

You stepped through the broken ranks. The elevator again, standing
shoulder to shoulder with your comrades, a fluttering sense of
hyper-awareness coursing your healthy young body.

The arsenal room. Sound lost in the heavily padded interior. You, on
line, grim-faced always, shuffling along, weapon bound. A counter; it
was like an exchange market. You showed the man your identity card and
he handed you a shiny ray gun and a shoulder case of extra ray pellets.

Then you passed through the door and scuffed down the rubberized steps
to the Preventive Section. Corpuscles took a carnival ride through your
veins.

You were fourth in line and she was fourth in line; that's how she was
assigned to you.

You perused her contours, noting that her uniform, although similar
to yours, somehow hung differently on her. This sidetracked martial
contemplations for the nonce. _Zowie hoopla_--your libido clapped its
calloused hands.

"Captain Rackley," said the man, "this is Miss Lieutenant Forbes. She
is your only guarantee against death should you be stung by a Ruston.
See that she remains close by at all times."

This seemed hardly an onerous commission and you saluted the man. You
then exchanged a flicker of lids with the young lady and intoned a
gruff command, relative to departure. This roused the two of you to
walk to the elevator.

Riding down in silence, you cast glances at her. Long forgotten
threnodies twitched into life in your revitalized brain. You were much
taken by the dark ringlets that hung over her forehead and massed on
her shoulders like curled black fingers. Her eyes, you noted, were
brown and soft as eyes in a dream. And why shouldn't they be?

Yet something lacked. Some retardation kept bringing you down from
ethereal cogitation. Could it, you wondered, be duty? And, remembering
what you were out to do, you suddenly feared again. The pink clouds
marched away in military formation.

Miss Lieutenant Forbes remained silent until the spacecar which you
were assigned was flitting across the sky beyond the outskirts of the
city. Then, following your somewhat banal overtures regarding the
weather, she smiled her pretty little smile and showed her pretty
little dimples.

"I am but sixteen," she announced.

"Then this is your first time."

"Yes," she replied, gazing afar. "I am very frightened."

You nodded, you patted her knee with what you meant to be a parental
manner, but which, post-haste, brought the crimson of modesty flaming
into her cheeks.

"Just stay close to me," you said, trying hard for a double meaning.
"I'll take care of you."

Primitive, but good enough for sixteen. She blushed more deeply.

The city towers flashed beneath. Far off, like a minute button on
the fringes of spiderweb, you saw your machine. You eased the wheel
forward; the tiny ship dipped down and began a long glide toward
Earth. You kept your eyes on the control board with strict attention,
wondering about this strange sense of excitement running pell mell
through your body, not knowing whether it presaged combat fatigue of
one sort or another.

This was war. The city first. Hola!

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship floated down to and hovered over the machine as you threw on
the air brakes. Slowly, it sank to the roof like a butterfly settling
on a flower.

You threw off the switch, heart pounding, all forgotten but the
present danger. Grabbing the ray gun, you jumped out and ran to the
edge of the roof.

Your machine was beyond the perimeter of the city. There were fields
about. Your keen eyes flashed over the ground.

There was no sign of the enemy.

You hurried back to the ship. She was still sitting inside watching
you. You turned the knob and the communicator system spilled out
its endless drones of information. You stood impatiently until the
announcer spoke your machine number and said the Rustons were within a
mile of it.

You heard her drawn-in breath and noted the upward cast of frightened
eyes in your direction. You turned off the set.

"Come, we'll go inside," you said, holding the ray gun in a
delightfully shaking hand. It was fun to be frightened. A fine sense of
living dangerously. Wasn't that why you were here?

You helped her out. Her hand was cold. You squeezed it and gave her a
half smile of confidence. Then, locking the door to the spacecar, to
keep the foe out, you took her arm and the two of you went down the
stairs. As you entered the main room, your head was at once filled with
the smooth hum of machinery.

Here, at this juncture of the adventure, you put down your ray gun and
ammunition and explained the machinery to her. It is to be noted that
you had no particular concern for the machinery as you spoke, being
more aware of her proximity. Such charm, such youth, crying out for
comfort.

You soon held her hand again. Then you had your arm around her
lithesome waist and she was close. Something other than military
defense planned itself in your mind.

Came the moment when she flicked up her drowsy lids and looked you
smack-dab in the eye, as is the archaic literary passage. You found
her violet eyes somewhat unbalancing. You drew her closer. The perfume
of her rosy breath tied casual knots in your limbs. And yet there was
still something holding you back.

_Swish! Slap!_

She stiffened and cried out.

The Rustons were at the walls!

       *       *       *       *       *

You raced for the table upon which your ray gun rested. On the couch
next to the table was your ammunition. You slung the case over your
shoulder. She ran up to you and, sternly, you handed her the preventive
case. You felt like the self-assured General when he was in a grim mood.

"Keep the needles loaded and handy," you said. "I may...."

The sentence died as another great slobbering Ruston slapped against
the wall. The sound of its huge suckers slurped on the outside. They
were searching for the machinery in the basement.

You checked the gun. It was ready.

"Stay here," you muttered. "I have to go down."

You didn't hear what she said. You dashed down the stairs and came
bouncing out into the basement just as the first horror gushed over the
edge of a window onto its metal floor like a stream of gravity-defying
lava.

       *       *       *       *       *

The row of blinking yellow eyes turned on you; your flesh crawled.
The great brown-gold monstrosity began to scuttle across toward the
machines with an oily squish. You almost froze in fear.

Then instinct came to the fore. You raised the gun quickly. A crackling
brilliantine blue ray leaped from the muzzle, touched the scaly body
and enveloped it. Screeching and the smell of frying oil filled the
air. When the ray had dissipated, the dead Ruston lay black and smoking
on the floor, its slime running across the welded seams.

You heard the sound of suckers behind. You whirled, blasted the second
of the Rustons into greasy oblivion. Still another slid over the window
edge and started toward you. Another burst from the gun and another
scorched hulk lay twitching on the metal.

You swallowed a great lump of excitement in your throat, your head
snapping around, your body leaping from side to side. In a second, two
more of them were moving toward you. Two bursts of ray; one missed. The
second monster was almost upon you before you burst it into flaming
chunks as it reared up to plunge its black stingers in your chest.

You turned quickly, cried out in horror.

One Ruston was just slipping down the stairs, another swishing toward
you, the long stingers aimed at your heart. You pressed the button. A
scream caught in your throat.

You were out of pellets!

You leaped to the side and the Ruston fell forward. You tore open the
case and fumbled with the pellets. One fell and shattered uselessly on
the metal. Your hands were ice, they shook terribly. The blood pounded
through your veins, your hair stood on end. You felt scared and amused.

The Ruston lunged again as you slid the pellet into the ray gun. You
dodged again--not enough! The end of one stinger slashed through your
tunic, laid open your arm. You felt the burning poison shoot into your
system.

You pressed the button and the monster disappeared in a cloud of
unguent smoke. The basement machinery was secure against attack--the
Rustons had bypassed it.

You leaped for the stairway. You had to save the machines, save her,
save yourself!

Your boots banged up the metal chairs. You lunged into the great room
of machines and swept a glance around.

A gasp tore open your mouth. She was collapsed on a couch, sprawled,
inert. A Ruston line of slime ran down the front of her swelling tunic.

You whirled and, as you did, the Ruston vanished into the machinery,
pushing its scaly body through the gear spaces. The slime dropped from
its body and watery jaws. The machine stopped, started again, the
racked wheels groaning.

       *       *       *       *       *

The city! You leaped to the machine's edge and shot a blast from the
ray gun into it. The brilliantine blue ray licked out, missed the
Ruston. You fired again. The Ruston moved too fast, hid behind the
wheels. You ran around the machine, kept on firing.

You glanced at her. How long did the poison take? They never said.
Already in your flesh, however, the burning had begun. You felt as if
you were going up in flames, as if great pieces of your body were about
to fall off.

You had to get an injection for yourself and her.

Still the Ruston eluded you. You had to stop and put another pellet
in the gun. The interior began to whirl around you; you were
overpoweringly dizzy. You pressed the button again and again. The ray
darted into the machine.

You reeled around with a sob and tore open your collar. You could
hardly breathe. The smell of the singed suet, of the rays, filled your
head. You stumbled around the machine, shot out another ray at the
fast-moving Ruston.

Then, finally, when you were about to keel over, you got a good target.
You pressed the button, the Ruston was enveloped in flame, fell in
molten bits beneath the machine, was swallowed up by the waste exhaust.

You dropped the ray gun and staggered over to her.

The hypodermics were on the table.

You tore open her tunic and jabbed a needle into her soft white
shoulder, shudderingly injected the antidote into her veins. You stuck
another into your own shoulder, felt the sudden coolness run through
your flesh and your bloodstream.

You sank down beside her, breathing heavily and closing your eyes. The
violence of activity had exhausted you. You felt as though you would
have to rest a month after this. And, of course, you would.

She groaned. You opened your eyes and looked at her. Your heavy
breathing began again, but this time you knew where the excitement was
coming from. You kept looking at her. A warm heat lapped at your limbs,
caressed your heart. Her eyes were on you.

"I...." you said.

Then all holding back was ended, all doubt undone. The city, the
Rustons, the machines--the danger was over and forgotten. She ran a
caressing hand over your cheek.

       *       *       *       *       *

"And when next you opened your eyes," finished the doctor, "you were
back in this room."

Rackley laughed, his head quivering on the pillow, his hands twitching
in glee.

"But my dear doctor," he laughed, "how fantastically clever of you to
know everything. How_ever_ do you do it, naughty man?"

The doctor looked down at the tall handsome man who lay on the bed,
still shaking with breathless laughter.

"You forget," he said, "I inject you. Quite natural that I should know
what happens then."

"Oh, quite! Quite!" cried Justin Rackley. "Oh, it was utterly, utterly
fantastic. Imagine me!" He ran strong fingers over the swelling biceps
of his arm. "_Me_, a hero!"

He clapped his hands together and deep laughter rumbled in his chest,
his white teeth flashed against the glowing tan of his face. The sheet
slipped, revealing the broad suppleness of his chest, the tightly
ridged stomach muscles.

"Oh, dear me," he sighed. "Dear me, what _would_ this dull existence be
without your blessed injections to ease our endless boredom?"

The doctor looked coldly at him, his strong white fingers tightening
into a bloodless fist. The thought plunged a cruel knife into his
brain--this is the end of our race, the sorry peak of Man's evolution.
This is the final corruption.

Rackley yawned and stretched his arms. "I must rest." He peered up at
the doctor. "It was such a _fatiguing_ dream."

He began to giggle, his great blond head lolling on the pillow. His
hands striking at the sheet as though he would die of amusement.

"Do tell me," he gasped, "what on earth have you in those utterly
delightful injections? I've asked you so often."

The doctor picked up his plastic bag. "Merely a combination of
chemicals designed to exacerbate the adrenals on one hand and, on the
other, to inhibit the higher brain centers. In short," he finished, "a
potpourri of intensification and reduction."

"Oh, you always say that," said Justin Rackley. "But it _is_
delightful. Utterly, charmingly delightful. You will be back in a month
for my next dream and my dream playback?"

The doctor blew out a weary gust of breath. "Yes," he said, making no
effort to veil his disgust. "I'll be back next month."

"Thank heavens," said Rackley, "I'm done with that awful Ruston dream
for another five months. Ugh! It's so frightfully vile! I like the
pleasanter dreams about mining and transporting ores from Mars and
the Moon, and the adventures in food centers. They're so much nicer.
But...." His lips twitched. "_Do_ have more of those pretty young girls
in them."

His strong, weary body twisted in delight.

"Oh, _do_," he murmured, his eyes shutting.

He sighed and turned slowly and exhaustedly onto his broad, muscular
side.

       *       *       *       *       *

The doctor walked through the deserted streets, his face tight with the
old frustration. Why? Why? His mind kept repeating the word.

Why must we continue to sustain life in the cities? For what purpose?
Why do we not let civilization in its last outpost die as it means to
die? Why struggle to keep such men alive?

Hundreds, thousands of Justin Rackleys--well kept animals, mechanically
bred and fed and massaged into fair and handsome form. Mechanically
restrained, too, from physically turning into the fat white slugs that,
mentally, they already were and would bodily resemble if left untended.
Or die.

Why not let them? Why visit them every month, fill their veins with
hypnotic drugs and sit back and watch them, one by one, go bursting
into their dream worlds to escape boredom? Must he endlessly send
his suggestions into their loosened brainways, fly them to planets
and moons, crowd all forms of love and grand adventure into their
mock-heroic dreams?

The doctor slumped tiredly and went into another dorm-building. More
figures, strongly or beautifully made, passive on couches. More dream
injections.

He made them, watched the figures stand and stumble to the wardrobes.
Explorers' outfits this time, pith helmets and attractive shorts,
snake boots and bared limbs. He stood at the window, saw them clamber
into their autocars and drive away. He sat back and waited for them to
return, knowing every move they would make, because he made them in his
mind.

They would go out to the hydroponics tanks and fight off an invasion
of Energy Eaters. Bigger than the Rustons and made of pure force,
they threatened to suck the sustenance from the plants in the growing
trays, the living, formless meat swelling immortally in the nutrient
solutions. The Energy Eaters would be beaten off, of course. They
always were.

Naturally. They were only dreams. Creatures of fantastic illusion,
conjured in eager dreaming minds by chemical magic and dreary
scientific incantation.

But what would all these Justin Rackleys say, these handsome and
hopeless ruins of torpid flesh, if they found out how they were being
fooled?

Found out that the Rustons were only mental fictions for objectifying
simple rust and wear and converting them into fanciful monsters.
Monsters which alone could feebly arouse the dim instinct for
self-preservation which just barely existed in this lost race. Energy
Eaters--beetles and spores and exhausted growth solutions. Mine
Borers--vaporous beasties that had to be blasted out of the Lunar and
Martian metal deposits. And others, still others, all of them threats
to that which runs and feeds and renews a city.

And what would they say, these Justin Rackleys, upon the discovery that
each of them, in their "dreams," had done genuine manual work? That
their ray guns were spray guns or grease guns or air hammers, their
death rays no more than streams of lubrication for rusting machines or
insecticides or liquid fertilizer?

What would they say if they found out how they were tricked into
breeding with aphrodisiacs in the guise of anti-poison shots? How
they, with no healthy interest in procreation, were drugged into the
furtherance of their spineless strain, a strain whose only function was
to sustain the life-giving machines.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a month he would return to Justin Rackley, _Captain_ Justin Rackley.
A month for rest, these people were so devoid of energy. It took
a month to build up even enough strength to endure an injection of
hypnotics, to oil a machine or tend a tray, and to bring forth one puny
cell of life.

All for the machines, the city, for man....

The doctor spat on the immaculate floor of the room with the pneumatic
couches.

The people were the machines, more than the machines themselves. A
slave race, a detestable residue, hopeless, without hope.

Oh, how they would wail and swoon, he thought, getting grim pleasure in
the notion, were they allowed to walk through that vast subterranean
tunnel to the giant chamber where the Great Machine stood, that
supposed source of all energy, and saw why they had to be tricked into
working. The Great Machine had been designed to eliminate all human
labor, tending the minor machines, the food plants, the mining.

But some wise one on the Control Council, centuries before, had had the
wit to smash the Great Machine's mechanical brain. And now the Justin
Rackleys would have to see, with their own unbelieving eyes, the rust,
the rot, the giant twisted death of it.... But they wouldn't.

Their job was to dream of adventurous work, and work while dreaming.

For how long?





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Waker Dreams, by Richard Matheson

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WAKER DREAMS ***

***** This file should be named 51076-8.txt or 51076-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/0/7/51076/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
